
The league’s 32 teams are split into two conferences — the American Football Conference (AFC) 
and the National Football Conference (NFC). The 16 teams in each conference are split into 
the East, North, South and West divisions; every division has four teams.

Here’s how each team’s opponents are set:

Every team plays six games against the other three teams in its division, facing off twice per 
season — once at home and once on the road.

The NFL's scheduling formula ensures;that all teams will play every team from every division 
in the other conference once every four years.

The NFL's scheduling formula ensures that all teams will play every team from every division 
in the other conference once every four years.

Every team plays one game against each of the four teams from a division within its 
conference — two games at home and two on the road. Which division a team plays is determined 
by a rotation system ensuring that the teams in one division will play the teams in every other 
division in its conference once every three years.

Every team plays one game against each of the four teams from a division in the other conference 
once per season — two games at home and two on the road. These matchups are also determined by a 
rotation, which ensures that all teams play every team from every division in the other conference 
once every four years.

Every team plays its remaining two games against teams from the two remaining divisions in its own 
conference — one game at home and the other on the road. The matchups are determined by where the 
teams finished in their divisions in the previous season. For example, a team that finished the 
previous year in third place in its division will play the third-place teams from the two other 
divisions in its conference.


32 teams, 16 games per season, 17 week season
2 (AFC, NFC) conferences
Each conference has 4 divisions (North, South, East and West) with 4 teams

Every team plays 6 games against the other 3 teams in their division (home and away equal) - 6 games

Every team plays one team from a division within it's conference - 4 games

Every team plays one team from a division in the other conference (2 home, 2 away) - 4 games

Every team plays their remaining two games (home/away) from a division within it's conference

Every team has one bye week per season

A maximum of 1 team per week can have a bye per conference


